Welcome everyone to practical
CSS layouts I'm Jen Kramer and
I am here to talk about taking your
CSS layouts to the next level.
This course is going to cover
building three kinds of websites,
I'm gonna show you what those are going
to look like here in just a moment.
And the goal for
this is to exercise the part of front end
development that gets
undervalued consistently.
Two thirds of the front end
consists of HTML and CSS.
Only one third of the front
end consists of JavaScript.
Today we're gonna be working
with the two thirds.
And one of the reasons I love teaching for
front end Masters is that their values
align with mine in that fundamentals
are critically important.
So if you know how to code HTML, CSS and
JavaScript from scratch,
you can build literally anything.
You don't have to keep up
with the latest frameworks.
And so
that is what we will be doing today.
We will be working with HTML and CSS,
we're gonna write it all from scratch.
We are gonna be working
inside of code pen.
If you don't have a CodePen account,
I would recommend that you sign up for
one at codepen.io, and I will be
giving you code pins along the way.
Those you can fork to your own account and
then you can follow along
with me as I write code.
Why are we doing it in CodePen?
Because I think it's a great
teaching environment and
particularly for HTML and CSS.
Every time I make a change It's
immediately reflected in the CodePen
environment, so
you can see what the web page looks like.
We are not slowed down
by workflow additions or
anything else that you might bundle
up with your web development process.
It gets you out of that mindset of all
these automatic things that are happening
in the background to focus you exactly
on what's happening in the code.
You know exactly what the HTML and
the CSS, and
we'll even do a tiny little bit of
JavaScript, what those are doing.
Trust me, I'm not writing any JavaScript.
We are going to get
JavaScript from other places.
But you'll see that in action as well.
The website for the course is available at
practical.css.education, this
is the course website.
You can see here that we have a chapter
listing down here that will talk you
through all of the things that you need
to know about this particular course.
If you click on the link for
chapter one, this is where we're at.
This is the prerequisites and the setup.
And this is where I will show you
what the site is gonna look like,
that we're going to build,
links to CodePen, that kind of thing.
When we get into the next chapter,
you'll have references here for
example, here we're working with colors.
Here's all the hex codes that
you're going to need to do that.
Here's the link to the CodePen,
where you're gonna put those in place.
Here's what the very first
page we're going to build,
this is what it's gonna look like,
that kind of thing.
It's all here available on the website,
practical.css.education.
So we will be building three websites
in this course that I've affectionately
called easy, medium and hard.
And that's only because that reflects
their levels of complication.
There are websites for
a fictitional band called Magenta Lime.
And I picked a band because there
are certain kinds of topics that lend
themselves to being all about emotion as
opposed to trying to sell you something.
So pretty much every corporate website
we've ever built has been all about trying
to get you to buy something,
or call them or
whatever that call to
action happens to be.
When you build websites for
movies or bands, other things,
it's about feeling and emotion.
And so we can be a little bit
crazier with our designs.
We can be a little bit more innovative
in what it is that we're doing.
So this is Magenta Lime and
the easy version,
on the left hand side,
you'll see the mobile layout here.
So just some basic a little bit of text,
some pictures and some reviews.
When we go to tablet we are going to
change our layout a little bit as we
often do, and when we get to desktop
we'll change our layout again.
So this is the quote easy version of this.
If you are relatively new to CSS, this is
gonna be a great place for you to start.
This is something that you'll
probably find kind of challenging.
If you have been in this field for
a while,
you may find this a little bit too easy.
Don't panic, there's more.
So we're gonna take the work that
we did on that easy site, and
then we're gonna apply it and take things
to the next level with our medium site.
So we have mobile, tablet and desktop
here for the Magenta Lime of sight.
And so
here we're going to do a bunch of things.
We're gonna skin an audio player,
that actually will play music.
We're going to work on
a tracklist that we have here.
And if you take a look very closely,
we have these crazy little
bits of layout that are here.
So this is the reviews and the images,
we go from mobile there on the top
to the tablet there on the bottom.
And then over to this desktop layout
where it'll be a column over on the side.
So we have some interesting kind of layout
issues that we're going to encounter along
the way here as well.
And then finally we're gonna get to
the difficult, so-called difficult site.
The track list that you see here on
the right-hand side is the mobile layout.
You can see that track list there,
that collapses, all right?
When it goes over to the tablet layout
here, you'll see that track list shows up
on the left side of the album cover,
and it will open from the side.
Instead of opening down,
as it does on mobile,
it'll open from the side and
we change the text of the button.
So there's a bunch of crazy
things that's going on with that.
And of course, you'll also see those
diamonds, see those diamonds there?
Those cool images?
We are gonna lay that out as well,
we're gonna use Flexbox to do that.
So, we got some crazy layout things
that are going on in here as well.
Yes.
>> Are we covering anything
about animations or transitions?
>> Well, we'll be a little bit
of animations in transitions.
It is not a focus of the course but
we will use them.
There is a separate course in the front
end masters library that focuses
on animations and transitions, and
if you want to know them in
detail you should check that out.
Okay so, let me just go over some basics
here code pen if this is new for you.
You'll wind up in a pen,
it will look like this., okay?
So you'll have three boxes across the top
that will have HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
You click the little, it looks like
a cupcake to me, I don't know,
cupcake button up here at the top.
And we are going to switch the view here,
I usually like to put my code
over on the left hand side.
You can choose to do whatever you want.
You can, of course, adjust these windows,
so I'm just gonna hide the JavaScript
window because there's
nothing there that we need.
And I prefer to do work this way
because then I can see my CSS right.
Applied here,
we do this all day long in CSS, [LAUGH].
And so this is, will give us
a quick view of how the things
are gonna look on mobile,
tablet, and desktop.
To fork it down here at the bottom,
there's a button that says fork.
And so if you click that button,
it will fork it.
It will actually save it to your
account if you've created an account.
And from that point on, it's saved for
in your account forever.
There's some other features
here that I like to use,
specifically the adding
to collection feature.
So there is a so-called collection,
that's available.
This link is inside of the website,
and so,
wow, that was,
I clicked on the wrong thing there.
You try that again?
This is, this one.
So this is a collection of all of
the CodePens here, front end masters,
practical CSS layouts.
These are all the code pens.
Start and finish states for
everything that we're going to do today.